METADATA: {'Header 1': 'CHAPTER 7 AUTOMATION AND REMOTE CONTROL', 'Header 2': '**7.2.3.1** Main Engine Control System'}
--------------------
***A circuit breakers as protective device shall be prepared for the control circuits in the switchboards.***  
1. Local control  
Manual, emergency controls from M/E local operating panel placed on the engine in engine room with following functions:  
Start/stop, reversing, speed control, and the most important engine data displayed.  
2. Remote control from engine control room  
Main operating panel shall be used for carrying out engine commands, adjust the engine parameters, select the running modes, and observe the status of the control system.  
3. Remote control from wheelhouse or navigation bridge deck wings  
The following controls shall be sequentially performed according to a preset RPM time loading program by operating the engine telegraph in wheelhouse or navigation bridge deck wings:  
Starting and stopping  
Speed increasing and decreasing as per engine design  
Reversing  
The reversing and speed setting of M/E shall be controlled by engine telegraph lever which is used as maneuvering lever.  
Main engine speed control shall be carried out through the electronic speed control system.  
In case of the first starting failure, two or more staring attempts shall be automatically carried out (total three attempts). An alarm shall be given after three attempts without firing. Re-starting shall be carried out after setting the telegraph lever at the “STOP” position.  
The auxiliary blower shall be automatically started and stopped by detecting the scavenging air manifold pressure, and also shall be capable of being started and stopped from engine control room.  
4. Control position transfer system  
Engine running modes shall be done from the main operating panel in ECR.  
Control shall be done from one station only at a time.  
(1) Local – engine control room  
Maneuvering position change-over between the engine side and the engine control room shall be carried out at the engine side.  
(2) Engine control room – wheelhouse  
Maneuvering position change-over between the wheelhouse and the engine control room shall be carried out in the engine control room.  
(3) Wheelhouse – navigation bridge deck wings  
Maneuvering position change-over between the wheelhouse and the both bridge wings shall be carried out in the wheelhouse.